DART (Dynamic Animation and Robotics Toolkit) is a collaborative,
cross-platform, open-source library developed by the Graphics Lab and Humanoid
Robotics Lab at the Georgia Institute of Technology, with ongoing contributions
from the Personal Robotics Lab at the University of Washington and the Open
Source Robotics Foundation. It provides data structures and algorithms for
kinematic and dynamic applications in robotics and computer animation. DART
stands out due to its accuracy and stability, which are achieved through the
use of generalized coordinates to represent articulated rigid body systems and
the application of Featherstoneâ€™s Articulated Body Algorithm to compute motion
dynamics.

For developers, DART offers full access to internal kinematic and dynamic
quantities, such as the mass matrix, Coriolis and centrifugal forces,
transformation matrices, and their derivatives, unlike many popular physics
engines that treat the simulator as a black box. It also provides efficient
computation of Jacobian matrices for arbitrary body points and coordinate
frames. The frame semantics of DART allow users to define and use arbitrary
reference frames (both inertial and non-inertial) to specify or request data.

DART is suitable for real-time controllers due to its lazy evaluation, which
automatically updates forward kinematics and dynamics values to ensure code
safety. It also allows for the extension of the API to embed user-provided
classes into DART data structures. Contacts and collisions are handled using an
implicit time-stepping, velocity-based linear complementarity problem (LCP) to
guarantee non-penetration, directional friction, and approximated Coulomb
friction cone conditions.

In summary, DART has applications in robotics and computer animation as it
features a multibody dynamic simulator and various kinematic tools for control
and motion planning.
